docs: concepts for secure variables and workload identity (#13764)
hashicorp/nomad: website/content/docs/concepts/secure-variables.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Secure Variables
description: Learn about Nomad's secure variables feature
---

# Secure Variables

> Most Nomad workloads need configuration or secrets. Nomad provides a `template`
> block to run consul-template alongside tasks, but leaves the source of those
> configuration values up to the operator. Typically you'll use [HashiCorp Vault]
> as the source for secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most Nomad workloads need access to config values or secrets. Nomad provides a `template`
block to run render such configuration on behalf of tasks, but has left the role of storing that
configuration to external services such as [HashiCorp Consul] and [HashiCorp Vault].
```

> Nomad's Secure Variables feature provides the option to store secrets at
> file-like paths directly in Nomad's state store. The contents of secrets are
> encrypted and replicated between servers with raft. Access to secrets is
> controlled by ACL policies, and tasks have implicit ACL policies that allow them
> to access their own secrets. You can create, read, update, or delete secrets via
> the command line or in the Nomad web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nomad's Secure Variables feature provides the option to securely store configuration at
file-like paths directly in Nomad's state store. The contents of these secrets are
encrypted and replicated between servers via raft. Access to secrets is
controlled by ACL policies, and tasks have implicit ACL policies that allow them
to access their own secrets. You can create, read, update, or delete secrets via
the command line or in the Nomad web UI.
```

> Note that the Secure Variables feature is intended for small pieces of
> configuration data needed by workloads. Because writing to the Nomad state store
> uses resources needed by Nomad, it's not well-suited for large or fast-changing
> data like batch job results. These should be stored in a separate
> database. Secure Variables are also not intended to be a full replacement for
> HashiCorp Vault. If you need powerful options like dynamic secrets or transit
> encryption, you'll need to use Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the Secure Variables feature is intended for small pieces of
configuration data needed by workloads. Because writing to the Nomad state store
uses resources needed by Nomad, it is not well-suited for large or fast-changing
data. For example, do not store batch job results as Secure Variables - these should be stored in an external
database. Secure Variables are also not intended to be a full replacement for
HashiCorp Vault. If you need powerful options like dynamic secrets or transit
encryption, continue using Vault.
```

## ACL for Secure Variables

Every Secure Variable belongs to a specific Nomad namespace. ACL policies can
restrict access to Secure Variables within a namespace on a per-path basis,

> using a list of `path` blocks, under the `namespace.secure_variables` block. See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using a list of `path` blocks, located under `namespace.secure_variables`. See
```

policies can restrict access to Secure Variables within a namespace on
a per-path basis, using a list of `path` blocks, under the
`namespace.secure_variables` block.

Path definitions may also include wildcard symbols, also called globs,
allowing a single path policy definition to apply to a set of paths
within that namespace. For example, the policy below allows full
access to secure variables at all paths in the "dev" namespace that
are prefixed with "project/", but only read access to paths prefixed
with "system/":

```hcl
namespace "dev" {
  policy       = "write"
  capabilities = ["alloc-node-exec"]

  secure_variables {

    # full access to secrets in all "project" paths

>     path "project/*" {

Reviewer 2: `question`: Should we mention anything about case-sensitivity, whitespace and acceptable characters for the `path`?

Author: That's a good question... right now details like this and your question about prefix matching below _should_ be the [Learn Guide on Policies](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/nomad/access-control-policies?in=nomad/access-control) but aren't! 

Unfortunately it doesn't look like we document the schema at that level of detail anywhere 😦 . I've been musing working up a ACL Policy Reference doc that takes the Learn Guide stuff and makes it into a detailed reference for the whole ACL policy schema. I'll do that in a separate PR, because we'll want to backport that so it shows for all versions of Nomad. Then we can refer to that new document from here to pick up all these good details.

Author: That reference doc is https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/pull/13787 and I'll update this PR with links once that's merged.

|------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| write      | Create or update Secure Variables at this path. Includes the "list" capability but not the "read" or "destroy" capabilities. |
| read       | Read the decrypted contents of Secure Variables at this path. Also includes the "list" capability                            |
| list       | List the metadata but not contents of Secure Variables at this path.                                                         |
| destroy    | Delete Secure Variables at this path.                                                                                        |

## Task Access to Secure Variables

In Nomad 1.4.0 tasks can access Secure Variables only with the [`template`]
block. The [workload identity] for each task grants it automatic access to
Secure Variables found at Nomad-owned paths with the prefix `jobs/`, followed by
the namespace, job ID, task group name, and task name.

```
jobs/$job_id/$task_group/$task_name
jobs/$job_id/$task_group
jobs/$job_id
jobs

> ```

Author: https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/pull/13848

> ```

Reviewer: I _think_ this might be better expressed as a literal ACL policy like the one above - e.g. it's not clear what capabilities my task automatically has, (and are they different at each level?)

Author: I love that idea. Will do.

For example, the task created by the example job spec created with `nomad job
init -short` will automatically have access to Secure Variables at the following
paths, within its own `default` namespace:

```
nomad/jobs/example/cache/redis
nomad/jobs/example/cache
nomad/jobs/example
nomad/jobs
```

You can provide access to additional secrets by creating policies associated
with the task's workload identity. For example, to give the task above access to
set of shared secrets, you can create the following policy file:

```hcl
namespace "shared" {
  secure_variables {
    path "*" {
      capabilities = ["read"]
    }
  }
}
```

Then create the policy with `nomad acl policy apply
"_:/default/example/cache/redis" ./policy.hcl` to give the task read access to

> all paths in the "shared" namespace.

Reviewer: would this look cleaner with full code blocks rather than inline snippets?

Author: Done

---
layout: docs
page_title: Secure Variables
description: Learn about Nomad's secure variables feature
---

# Secure Variables

Most Nomad workloads need access to config values or secrets. Nomad provides a

> `template` block to run render such configuration on behalf of tasks, but has

Author: Yeah, but that'd be provide twice in the same sentence, so I've cleaned that up a bit.

left the role of storing that configuration to external services such as

> [HashiCorp Consul] and [HashiCorp Vault].

Author: Fixed!

configuration data needed by workloads. Because writing to the Nomad state store
uses resources needed by Nomad, it is not well-suited for large or fast-changing
data. For example, do not store batch job results as Secure Variables - these
should be stored in an external database. Secure Variables are also not intended
to be a full replacement for HashiCorp Vault. If you need powerful options like
dynamic secrets or transit encryption, continue using Vault.

## ACL for Secure Variables

Every Secure Variable belongs to a specific Nomad namespace. ACL policies can
restrict access to Secure Variables within a namespace on a per-path basis,
using a list of `path` blocks, located under `namespace.secure_variables`. See
the [ACL policy specification] docs for details about the syntax and structure
of an ACL policy.

Path definitions may also include wildcard symbols, also called globs, allowing
a single path policy definition to apply to a set of paths within that
namespace. For example, the policy below allows full access to secure variables
at all paths in the "dev" namespace that are prefixed with "project/", but only

> read access to paths prefixed with "system/". Note that the glob can match an

Author: Reworked this a bit.

| list       | List the metadata but not contents of Secure Variables at this path.                                                         |
| destroy    | Delete Secure Variables at this path.                                                                                        |

## Task Access to Secure Variables

In Nomad 1.4.0 tasks can access Secure Variables only with the [`template`]
block. The [workload identity] for each task grants it automatic read and list
access to Secure Variables found at Nomad-owned paths with the prefix
`nomad/jobs/`, followed by the job ID, task group name, and task name. This is
equivalent to the following policy:

```hcl
namespace "$namespace" {
  secure_variables {

    path "nomad/jobs" {
      capabilities = ["read", "list"]
    }

    path "nomad/jobs/$job_id" {
      capabilities = ["read", "list"]
    }

    path "nomad/jobs/$job_id/$task_group" {
      capabilities = ["read", "list"]
    }

    path "nomad/jobs/$job_id/$task_group/$task_name" {
      capabilities = ["read", "list"]
    }
  }
}
```

> For example, the task created by the example job spec created with `nomad job

Author: Yes, much better! Done

init -short` will automatically have access to Secure Variables as if it had the
following policy:

```hcl
namespace "default" {
  secure_variables {

    path "nomad/jobs" {
      capabilities = ["read", "list"]
    }

    path "nomad/jobs/example" {
      capabilities = ["read", "list"]
    }

    path "nomad/jobs/example/cache" {
      capabilities = ["read", "list"]
    }

    path "nomad/jobs/example/cache/redis" {
      capabilities = ["read", "list"]
    }
  }
}
```

You can provide access to additional secrets by creating policies associated

> with the task's workload identity. For example, to give the task above access to

Reviewer 3: EDIT: Oh now I'm reading the workload identity page and see that it has this. I would just link to the WI page from down here too then.
